# AG_Oertel_software_emilio

## Description and Usage
This GitHub repository contains a collection of Python tools designed for the Oertel lab to streamline various processing steps for OCT, OCTA image analysis. Each tool is encapsulated within its own folder and serves a specific purpose in the image analysis pipeline, offering functionalities tailored to different stages of the process. Additionally, there's a folder named "Common_utils" which contains scripts and general files utilized by the other tools.

### Description of the Different Tools
Below is a brief overview of each tool:

1. **OCTA_Filenames_Format_Adapter_for_Segmentation**: This tool facilitates the conversion between output format generated by OCTA devices and the input format required by two separate tools: [OCTA Segmentation](https://github.com/aiforvision/OCTA-autosegmentation) and [OCTA Graph Feature Extraction and Analysis](https://github.com/KreitnerL/OCTA-graph-extraction). It streamlines the process of formatting filenames and organizing folders, ensuring compatibility between OCTA device output names and the input requirements of the mentioned tools.
2. **Cirrus_Dicom_Segmentation_Masks_Extractor**: This tool is designed to extract segmentation masks from DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine) files generated by the Cirrus OCT (Optical Coherence Tomography) device. It provides an interface for selecting source folders containing DICOM files and automatically extracts segmentation masks for facial areas, deep vascular complex (DVC), and superficial vascular complex (SVC). The extracted masks are saved as PNG images, facilitating subsequent analysis and processing.
3. **E2E_OCTA_Images_Extractor**: This tool extracts OCTA (Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography) images from E2E files, a format used by OCT devices. It parses the directory structure of E2E files and extracts OCTA images, organizing them by patient, study, series, and depth layer (such as superficial vascular complex (SVC), deep vascular complex (DVC), and avascular complex (AVC)). The extracted images are saved in PNG format, enabling easy integration with other OCTA analysis tools.

### Main Buttons and Functionalities
Although the basic interface might vary across different tools depending on their utility, the general principles and functions remain the same. Below is the skeleton of the base interface for all tools, along with a brief explanation of the main buttons and their functionalities:

1. **Select Folder Button**: This button allows you to select a folder from your system. Clicking on it opens a file dialog where you can navigate to the desired folder and select it.

2. **Run Button**: Clicking on this button executes the main functionality associated with the tool. It initiates the processing of the selected folder or files within it, based on the tool's purpose.

3. **Recursive Search Checkbox**: This checkbox enables or disables recursive search functionality. When checked, the tool will search for files recursively within all subdirectories of the selected folder. If unchecked, it will only process files within the selected folder itself.

These buttons and checkboxes provide users with the necessary controls to interact with the tool and perform the desired tasks.

### How to use It
To utilize each tool within this repository, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the folder corresponding to the tool you want to use. If you're not familiar with how to use the command prompt or Terminal, you can refer to the tutorial linked below.
2. Execute the `main.py` file within that folder.



## Installation Prerequisites
If you're not familiar with using the command prompt or Terminal window, here are two tutorials to help you get started:

1. [Command Prompt or Terminal Window](https://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/intro_to_command_line/#what-is-the-command-line)
2. [Navigate to a Directory](https://tutorial.djangogirls.org/en/intro_to_command_line/#change-current-directory)
   
Before you proceed with using the tools in this repository, ensure that you have the following installed:

### 1. Python 3+
If you don't already have Python 3+ installed, you can download and install it from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

### 2. Donwload or clone This Repository
You can clone this repository by clicking on the green "<> Code" button at the top right of the repository page. Alternatively, you can download the ZIP file and extract it to your desired location.

### 3. Install Dependencies
Navigate to the directory containing this repository's files (requirements.txt) using the command prompt or Terminal. Then, install the required dependencies by running the following command:
```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
